---
title: ""
date: 2019-02-05
layout: post
---
Today started off very strangely. While in a supermarket at just after 9am I observed what might look like a normal transaction that really got me thinking. A gentleman who was in his 60’s was purchasing a number of cheap cider bottles and a bottle of cheap vodka. He completed his transaction and went on his merry way.

Not to make too many judgements it was reasonably obvious his intentions were to consume them in the near future, he appeared to do this quite often. This sounds like judgement, but it come from a feeling of love - but I really wish someone would have spoken up.

It’s a hard situation to be in, especially working for a large capitalist corporation but I questioned if staff should really be doing this transaction. To be honest I still haven’t come to a complete conclusion but I feel that a little bit of resistance, done with love, should have been evident.

## It’s Not Their Job…

I appreciate this response, it isn’t their job to interfere with other people’s lives. You’re there to do a job, just scan the products and take the money. However with that said a few question to enquire if they are ok, simply just share a bit of compassion and interest with them is not too much of a reach.
I am reminded of the push back regarding a recent Gillette adverts asking for men to improve their social relationships. Much of the resistance was along the lines of “you make razors, you shouldn’t be getting involved”. But I really don’t think there is anything wrong with either of these situations to use their platform to speak up and show some compassion to others.

Your platform could be a huge international corporation, working in a shop or simply walking past someone in the street. Just asking if everything is ok, and helping someone can spread a little bit of love into the world.
